---
layout: post
title: LRU Cache
author: Mozhang Guo
categories: Note
tags: [LRU]
---

LRU stands for Least Recently Used Cache. It organizes items in order of use, which allowing you to quickly identify which item hasn't been sed for the longest amount time. This algorithm requires keeping tack of what was used when, which is expensive if one wants to make sure the algorithm always discards the least recently used item. General implementations of this technique requires keeping age bits for cache-lines and track least recently used cache-line based on age bits. 

Think when we are given total possible page numbers that can be referred. What are also given cache(or memory) size (Number of page frames that cache can hold at a time). The LRU caching scheme is to remove the least recently used frame when cache is full and a new page is referenced which is not in the cache.

## How do we implement that?
The following example gives an idea of LRU cache.
By using these two data structure to implement LRU cache
1. Queue. implemented using a doubly linked list. The maximum size of the queue will be equal to the total number of frames available(cache size). The most recently used pages will be near front end and least recently pages will be near the rear end.
2. Hash table. The page number as key and address of the corresponding queue node as value.

So when a page is referenced, the required page may be in memory. If it is in memory, we need to detach the node of the list and bring it to the front of the queue.

If the required page is not memory, we bring that in memory. In simple words, we add a new node to the front of the queue and update the corresponding node address in the hash. If the queue is full, we remove a node from the rear of the queue, and add the new node to the front of the queue.

```C++

class LRUCache {

    std::list<int> dq;

    unordered_map<int, list<int>::iterator> ma;
    int csize;

public:
    LRUCache(int);
    void refer(int);
    void display();
}

// Declare the size of Cache
LRUCache::LRUCache(int n) {
    csize = n;
}

void LRUCache::refer(int x) {
    // if we cannot find the x in the cache
    if (ma.find(x) == ma.end()) {
        
        // the cache is also full
        if (dq.size() == csize) {
            // delete leat recently used element
            int last = dq.back();
            // pops the last element
            dq.pop_back();
            // erase the last from the cache
            ma.erase(last);
        }
    } else {
        dq.erase(ma[x]);
        dq.push_front(x);
        ma[x] = dq.begin();
    }
}

void LRUCache::display() {
    // iterate in the dequeue and print
    // all the elements in it
    for (auto it = dq.begin(); it != dq.end(); it++) {
        std::cout << *it << " " << std::endl;
    }
}

```
